.\" 
.\" Man page for pymca 
.\" 


.TH pymca 1 "September 2018" "ESRF" "PyMca X-Ray Fluorescence Toolkit"

.SH NAME

pymca - PyMca X-Ray Fluorescence Toolkit main application

.SH SYNOPSIS

pymca [OPTION]... [FILE]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
Start the graphical user interface of the PyMca X-Ray 
Fluorescence Toolkit main window using latest user defined default settings.

.P
If FILE is given, it will be opened in the program provided 
its format is supported.

.B -f 
bypass user defined default settings

.SH EXAMPLES

.B pymca -f
.P
Start the program bypassing user defined default settings.

.B pymca -f LShellConstants.dat
.P
Open the LShellConstants.dat and list its contents in the source browser.

.B pymca -f your_HDF5_file.h5
.P
Allows one to browse the HDF5 file your_HDF5_file.h5 in PyMca if the Python module h5py is installed.

.B pymca --nativefiledialogs=X
.P
With X set to 1, the program will use the file dialogs from the operating system. With X set to 0, the program will use Qt file dialogs.

.B pymca --backend=XX
.P
Start the program using the selected graphics backend (mpl for matplotlib, gl for OpenGL)

.B pymca --binding=XX
.P
Start the program using the selected Qt binding. It has to be one of PyQt5 (default), PySide2 or PySide6.
i
.B pymca --logging=XX
.P
Set the logging level. Allowed values are, in increasing order of verbosity: critical, error, warning (default), info, debug.
Alternatively, you can specify an integer in range 0 (critical) to 4 (debug).

.SH SEE ALSO
HDF5, h5py
