.TH pymcabatch 1 "March 2012" "ESRF" "PyMca X-Ray Fluorescence Toolkit"

.SH NAME

pymcabatch - Batch fitting of X-ray Fluorescence Spectra

.SH SYNOPSIS

pymcabatch [OPTIONS] [FILES]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
Loops over a series of input files to which the same fitting 
parameters can be applied. The setup of the fit configuration 
is usually made via the main PyMca application.

The program stores the fitted parameters inside the IMAGES 
directory created in the user specfified output directory. The 
pymcapostbatch tool can perform further analysis via correlation 
tools.

The user can also request an HTML report. This is much slower 
but can be convenient to browse the results with a Web browser.

This tool is also accessible via the Tools menu of the main 
PyMca window application.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B  pymcabatch
    Open a dialog to select input files, fit configuration, output 
    directory and output parameters.
    
.B  pymcabatch --cfg=fitconfig.cfg --outdir=/tmp/  *.mca
    Fit all the .mca files in current directory using the specified 
    confifuration file fitconfig.cfg and stores the output in /tmp 

.B  pymcabatch --cfg=fitconfig.cfg --outdir=/tmp/  --listfile=inputfiles
    Same as above but taken the files from the inputfiles file. This file 
    is just a text file with one file path in each line.

.B  pymcabatch --cfg=fitconfig.cfg --outdir=/tmp/ --concentrations=1 --listfile=inputfiles
    Same as above but calculating the concentrations.

.SH CAVEATS

This tool, when used in command line mode, could run fully Qt 
independent because in that case it uses Qt just for showing 
the progress bar.
    
.SH SEE ALSO
pymca, pymcapostbatch
