.\" 
.\" Man page for pymcaroitool 
.\" 


.TH pymcaroitool 1 "March 2012" "ESRF" "PyMca X-Ray Fluorescence Toolkit"

.SH NAME

pymcaroitool - PyMca region-of-interest imaging X application

.SH SYNOPSIS

pymcaroitool [OPTIONS]... [FILE(S)]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
Start the graphical user interface of the PyMca X-Ray 
Fluorescence Toolkit region-of-interest imaging tool.

This tool is best suited for handling datasets that can be represented by 
three-dimensional arrays. Typical cases are stacks of images (first 
dimension is image number) or 2D maps of 1D spectra (last dimension is 
spectrum channel number).
 
It allows one to display maps of particular regions of the spectra or spectra 
of a particular region of the map.

A system of plugins allows to extend the capabilities of this tool. Plugins
for multivariate analysis are already built in.
 
.P
If FILE is given, it will be opened in the program provided 
its format is supported.


.SH EXAMPLES

.B pymcaroitool
.P
Start the program with a file browser to select the input files.

.B pymcaroitool --binding=XX
.P
Start the program using the selected Qt binding. It has to be one of PyQt5 (default), PySide2 or PySide6.

.B pymcaroitool file_0001.edf
.P
Tries to open the file named file_0001.edf and all indexed files of 
the form file_????.edf where ???? is a number.

.B pymcaroitool --imagestack=1 file_0001.edf
.P
Tries to open the file named file_0001.edf and all indexed files of 
the form file_????.edf where ???? is a number as a set of images.

.B pymcaroitool uncompressed_tiff_file_0001.tif
.P
Tries to open a series of uncompressed TIFF files as an image stack.

.B pymcaroitool --begin=100 --end=200 --filepattern=file_%05d.edf
.P
Start the program loading the single indexed files from file_00100.edf to 
file_00200.edf

.B pymcaroitool --begin=10,100 --end=20,200 --filepattern=row%d_col%04d.dat
.P
Load the double indexed files from row10_col0100.dat, row10_col0101.dat, ... 
to row20_col0199.dat, row20_col0200.dat

.B pymcaroitool --logging=XX
.P
Set the logging level. Allowed values are, in increasing order of verbosity: critical, error, warning (default), info, debug.
Alternatively, you can specify a value in range 0 (critical) to 4 (debug).



.SH CAVEATS
If files f_000.xxx and f_001.xxx are present in the same directory, and 
only one of them is selected, the program will always try to load both of
them unless a cumbersome way using a file pattern is used.

.SH SEE ALSO
HDF5, h5py
